Proposal: Developing a CS Teaching Methods Experiment (#27)
compusciencing/compusciencing.github.io: _posts/2019-12-03-proposal-cs-teaching-methods-experiment.md

---
layout: post
title: "Proposal: Developing a CS Teaching Methods Experiment"
tags: ["csc696", "teaching", "pedagogy", "experiment preparation", "msu"]
author: "Nathan Hartzler"
---

# Overview

> Pedagogy for Computer Science is still a young area of research where many contributions can be made. I would like to conduct research on a multi-sectioned Missouri State Univeristy Department of Computer Science course in the Fall 2020 semester. I will use this proposed Spring 2020 CSC696 course to develop a hypothesis and build an expirment for the Fall 2020 semester.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pedagogy for Computer Science is still a young area of research where many contributions can be made. I would like to conduct research on a multi-sectioned Missouri State University Department of Computer Science course in the Fall 2020 semester. I will use this proposed Spring 2020 CSC696 course to develop a hypothesis and build an experiment for the Fall 2020 semester.
```

## Project Milestones

* Develop a good hypothesis

>     * Does a tactile demonstration for a theoretical computer science concept increase student understanding of the concept?

Reviewer: Elaborate on what you mean by tactile demonstration. Maybe given an example.

* Develop an expirement to test the hypothesis
    * Use 4 sections: 2 test sections and 2 control sections
    * Teach the concept of Turing Machines to all 4 sections
        * The 2 control sections receive a traditional lecture
            * [![Turing Machines Explained - Computerphile](http://img.youtube.com/vi/dNRDvLACg5Q/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dNRDvLACg5Q)
        * The 2 test sections recieve a lecture with a hands-on demonstration
            * [![Turing Tumble](http://img.youtube.com/vi/3r0P3CSYI-U/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3r0P3CSYI-U)
    * Test all 4 sections on the same set of Turing Machine questions
        * Use as a set of bonus questions on one of the course exams
* By February 24th, 2020 
    * Submit an application for review to Missouri State University's [Institutional Review Board](https://ora.missouristate.edu/IRB.htm)
* By April 6th, 2020
    * Present the proposed research to the instructors of a multi-sectioned course

## Meetings and Work

> Meetings would be held about once a week for the duration of the Spring 2020 semester. In addition to working towards the above project milestones, I would also use the semester to read STEM Pedagogy methods and Computer Science Pedagogy research papers. The hope would be that this research can be repeated in future semesters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meetings would be held about once a week for the duration of the Spring 2020 semester. Besides working towards the above project milestones, I would also use the semester to read STEM Pedagogy methods and Computer Science Pedagogy research papers. The hope would be that I can repeat this research in future semesters.
```
